---
layout: post
title:  "Qantas Breach Writeup - Scattered Spider"
date:   2025-06-16 21:00:00 +1000
categories: threat intel
---

<style>
  body { font-size: 13px; }
  h1 { font-size: 19px !important; }
  h2 { font-size: 17px !important; }
  h3 { font-size: 15px !important; }
</style>

## Overview

Technical details and updated recount of events regarding the Qantas data breach.

### Summary

Qantas confirmed on the 30th of June 2025 that a breach had occurred. In a release posted on their website, they stated that 5.7 million customer records had been stolen, stating that "an initial review" indicated that customer names, email addresses, phone numbers, birth dates, and frequent flyer numbers were exfiltrated.

### Timeline

1. WestJet confirms cyber incident (13/06/2025)  
2. Hawaiian Airlines confirms cyber incident (26/06/2025)  
3. Mandiant attributes attacks to Scattered Spider and states that they are actively targeting the aviation sector (27/06/2025)  
4. Qantas releases a statement confirming a data breach (01/07/2025)  
5. Qantas releases a statement saying they are in contact with the attacker (08/07/2025)  
6. Qantas confirms the data is not yet up for sale publicly (09/07/2025)  

### Writeup

Qantas are playing their cards close to their chest with this one, unlike their friends at Medibank. In their initial statement, they confirmed that the AFP were leading the investigation.

A Qantas call centre employee was successfully socially engineered into handing over login credentials. The call centre employee was based in Manila, Philippines. Scattered Spider actively targets third-party providers that companies outsource to for cheaper labour. It's a no-brainer. Island hopping continues to be a common method Scattered Spider uses.

Unfortunately, as per usual, very few technical details about the breach have been released. However, from what Qantas has shared, it is confirmed that sensitive data related to customers is stored on a separate "network." Thus, the customer information exfiltrated appears to be limited to what Qantas has stated above—essentially PII, nothing more. Unless other accounts were compromised, which they state have not been.

The level of orchestration from the social engineering attack is pretty neat:
- Offshore call centre targeted  
- Heavy recon (convincing detail)  
- Peak time for airline travel  

If this attack follows the usual Scattered Spider playbook, they’ve likely offered a ransom for the return of the data. You'd assume its highly unlikely that the ransom is paid especially with the AFP involved.

I'll continue to update this as more details come to light.

### Lessons learned

1. Highlights the risks of cutting costs through third parties to deliver business functions
2. Enable MFA by default
3. Lack of call centre training
4. Segmentation of data is important. Luckily for Qantas this was done well. No CC numbers we're leaked.

### TTPs Indicative of Scattered Spider

Scattered Spider commonly uses RDP tools that may already be used by the business. This hypothetically avoids detection, as exclusions may have been created in EDR/firewall policies or SIEM alerts.

The following legitimate tools are often used to initiate RDP connections:
- Fleetdeck.io  
- Level.io  
- Ngrok  
- Pulseway  
- ScreenConnect  
- Splashtop  
- Tactical RMM  
- Tailscale  
- TeamViewer  

Another common TTP is logging in from Western countries—likely using residential proxy IPs or infrastructure that doesn’t raise red flags. Logging in from a Western country typically avoids detections that look for high-risk country logins.
