---
layout: post
title:  "Compromised Windows 2022 Server - Forensic Anaylsis"
date:   2025-06-16 21:00:00 +1000
categories: project
---

<style>
  body { font-size: 13px; }
  h1 { font-size: 19px !important; }
  h2 { font-size: 17px !important; }
  h3 { font-size: 15px !important; }
</style>

### Overview

A mate recommended I have a go at analysing a compromised 2022 windows server that was done by ransomware.

You can download the E01 here. 
- [Download - E01](https://ordo.open.ac.uk/articles/dataset/Compromised_Windows_Server_2022_simulation_/26038642/1?file=47197528)

On my mate's website there are 14 questions that we should answer to close off the incident. I'll be going through one by one doing that and detailing the steps I took to get there. 

Anyhow, I'll be using ftkimager and autopsy to sift through the EO1 cause I'm not sponsored by the CCP. But here's a list of tools/programs I used for this
- Autopsy
- Event Viewer (.evtx logs)
- 

My mate's original writeup
- [iBlueTeam CTF Challenge](https://www.iblue.team/ctf-challenges/compromised-windows-server-2022-simulation)

The following is a brief for some context - "Brief - "Simulated UK-based small office network running from Sept 2023 to Feb 2024. The administrator opened RDP to facilitate working from home. As part of the scenario, on 12th Feb 2024 discovered the server was no longer responding with 'Red Petya' ransomware displayed on the screen. Forensic experts were engaged, the disk decrypted and a forensic image taken in EnCase E01 format (also known as Expert Witness Format).""

### Findings/Ramblings/Process

So the brief says the server was ransomed with Red Petya malware. So lets get a few IOCs to start with and understand some TTPs for the group.

TTPs
- Exposed RDP ports
- Stolen creds
- PowerShell and WMI
- Lateral movement through SMB
- Process injection into rundll32.exe
- Deletes logs

IOCs
- perfc.dll
- perfc.dat
- HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\ = "rundll32 C:\Windows\perfc.dat,#1" 

Ok so the admin works from home using RDP. Therefore, RDP port is open. Likely a initial access vector. Was the port open? Surely not. A decent 'small office network' would whitelist IPs for the RDP port. No but seriously this is likely the initial access vector. So to kick off the timeline lets try and pull some suspicious RDP logons.
- Logon type 10 (RDP)
- Event ID 4624 (Successful logon)

Steps:
1. Pull Security.evtx from \Windows\System32\Winevnt\Logs
2. Load into Event Viewer and filter
3. Have a look for abnormal source IPs

Ok, so the administrators IP looks to be 195.21.1.97. This pops up consistently in the logs. The following are abnormal. They logon with the user 'admin' whilst the legitimate user logs on with the user 'administrator'.
- 185.229.66.183 (First logon 2/6/2024 10:00:28 AM)
- 31.220.85.162 (First logon 2/7/2024 6:52:43 AM)

So the IP 31.220.85.162 was the last IP that RDP'd into the host at 2/10/2024 9:52:13 AM

Let's check the reputation/location of these IPs
- https://www.virustotal.com/gui/ip-address/31.220.85.162 (4/94) | Germany
- https://www.virustotal.com/gui/ip-address/185.229.66.183 (0/94) | Russia

Alright, so my suspicions we're right. The germany IP is no good. And it looks like RDP was the way in. However, there is a huge gap in the logs? 12th of Feb is when the ransomware message was displayed. Last log is on the 8th? Common TTP for Red Peyta is to clear logs.

Lets look for Event ID: 1102 (audit logs cleared)
- Hmmmm... No events found.
- Also no reg key entries...

Alright likely logs we're cleared. Lets circle back on this later.


There's try and determine the TTP that allowed to these successful RDP logons. Lets search for logon failures (Event ID: 4625)
- Tens of thousands failed network logons from 36.133.110.87 using NTLM 
- NTLM bruteforcing is super duper common.
- Last bruteforcing failed attempt from 36.133.110.87 occured at 2/6/2025 7:58:45 AM

Alright. Hitting the sack. Another day and another dollar. Got some network IOCs and we know RDP bruteforcing was the way in! Good to know.
- Looks likes edits and user profiles we're viewed afterwards.

### IOCs

Network IOCs
- 31.220.85.162
- 185.229.66.183
- 36.133.110.87

### Timeline

1. 2/6/2024 10:00:28 AM - First RDP logon from suspicious IP detected (185.229.66.183)
2. 2/7/2024 6:52:43 AM - First RDP logon from suspicious IP detected (31.220.85.162)

## Questions

### Q1. What happened before 12th February 2024

Observed NTLM bruteforcing as the initial access vector. In line with Red Peyta TTPs

### Q2. What happened immediately prior to 12th February 2024

### Q3. What happened on/around 12th February 2024

### Q4. What happened after 12th February 2024 (documented containment/isolation steps)

### Q5. How did the ransomware get onto the system?

### Q6. Were any vulnerabilities exploited?

### Q7. Were any accounts compromised?

### Q8. What identifiers can be obtained from the host? (source IP, usernames, file hashes etc)

### Q9. What Tools, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) were employed during the attack?

- NTLM bruteforcing 
- Log clearing (security.evtx)

### Q10. Which operating system was running and which version was it?

### Q11. Was the operating system updated with the most current security patches? Were any missing?

### Q12. What services (such as file sharing, remote desktop, web services) did the host offer?

### Q13. Did any user accounts have weak passwords?