---
layout: post
title:  "Windows 11 Recall"
date:   2025-09-02 21:00:00 +1000
categories: privacy
---

<style>
  body { font-size: 16px; }
  body {font-family: 'Inter', sans-serif}
  h1 { font-size: 19px !important; }
  h2 { font-size: 17px !important; }
  h3 { font-size: 15px !important; }
</style>

## Overview

Windows Recall provides searchable memory across everything you've done your PC for our savour Windows 11 CoPilot. 

If you haven't heard of this, you are living under a rock. This is the update no one asked for. Literally no one wins from this.

### How it works

Recall takes screenshots of your activity and stores them in an encrypted .kb file in this directory. 

It uses Optical Character Recognition (OCR) to extract text within these screenshots, allowing it to be searchable. 

```"C:\users\[your username]\AppData\Local\CoreAIPlatform.00\UKP\{some number} folder"```

You can do one of two things with these screenshots.

1. Open Windows Recall to view the screenshots themself
2. Use CoPilot to scan them and pull information from them

So a potential use case would be:
1. Spend the afternoon looking for a nice new laptop and you finally find one
2. Forget what the link is
3. Ask CoPilot what that laptop was from earlier you found
4. CoPilot reads the screenshots in the .kb file and gives you the information.

So essentially what we have is a DB that has screenshots of everything you've done on your computer during a session.

Now luckily there are some security improvements that we're added after initial outrage. 

1. The .db file contents are encrypted, using Microsoft BlackMagic.
2. Windows Recall needs Windows Hello to sign in.
3. No telemetry/screenshot data is sent to Microsoft.

### Why is it an issue

Well because everything you do on your computer has a screenshot attached to it.

An older POC labeled 'TotalRecall' existed for the first version of Recall. This was prior to Microsoft encrypting the .db file. 

https://github.com/xaitax/TotalRecall

Luckily, Windows save the day encrypting the .kb file, so the screenshots are no longer unencrypted. However, could you imagine if InfoStealers had have started pumping in TotalRecall to there smash and grab routine. Yikes, could be very revealing.

Alright, so its encrypted cool. Yes, that is great. But the underlying problem is why do Microsoft need to take screenshots of your activity all the time. All to be fed into Local Copilot for data analytics and a better AI usage experience. 

### How to disable Windows 11 Recall

As of June 2024 Recall has been opt-in. You'll be prompted this on installation.

If you are concerned that's it's enabled. Check through this method.

1. Open Windows search and whack in "Turn windows features on or off"
2. Untick Recall option
3. Restart PC
4. Give yourself a pat on the back