---
layout: post
title:  "Volatility 2.6"
date:   2025-09-09 21:00:00 +1000
categories: forensics
---

<style>
  body { font-size: 16px; }
  body {font-family: 'Inter', sans-serif}
  h1 { font-size: 19px !important; }
  h2 { font-size: 17px !important; }
  h3 { font-size: 15px !important; }
</style>

## Overview

Participated in the Cybercon 2025 CTF. Had a lot of flags around memory dump analysis. So I thought I'd whack together a cheat sheet and a few basic tutorials.

I am using Voltatility 2.6 because 3 sucks and has little documentation atm.

### Installation

Volatility is super easy to use and install. 

1. Download the .zip from from here: [Volatility 2.6](https://github.com/volatilityfoundation/volatility/releases)
2. Extract .zip
3. Install Python
4. Navigate to dir where Volatility is installed
5. Run ``py vol.py {Insert Arguments}``

### Basic commands

Everything you may need when investigating a dump. One liners. Tutorials will be below for more complicated analysis such as pulling files.

Anyhow, here's a list of stuff that has helped me tremendously over the last few days trying to figure out how to use this tool. 

#### OS Information
Displays info such as OS, Architecture and Profiles.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” imageinfo``

Volatility 2 requires a profile to be specified for each search. The above command gives you that profile you can append into your searches.

#### Process Information
Reads the OS's active process list. Active at the time the .dmp was taken.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> pslist``

Scans physical memory. Can be usedful for finding processes that pslist have missed. As it can find terminated processes.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> psscan``

Builds a process tree from active process list.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> pstree``

#### File Information
Scans physucal memory. Looking for file onjects, MFT entries and file data. Great for discovering paths/weird files you can then extract and analyse.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> filescan``

Dumps all recoverable files in the memory dump and writes them to the specified directory.
- ``vol.py -f /path/to/file --profile=<profile> dumpfiles --dump-dir="/path/to/dir"``

Dumps a specific file specified by it's offset. You can then check the hash of the file in PowerShell using ``Get-FileHash``
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> dumpfiles ‑‑dump-dir=“/path/to/dir” -Q <offset>``

Dumps all files associated with a process ID. Useful for determining what the malware touched.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> dumpfiles ‑‑dump-dir=“/path/to/dir” -p <PID>``

#### Command Line History
Reads each processes command-line strong at the time it was active. (e.g. C:\Users\don\Desktop\Movie\malware.exe). Can be helpful in determining where a process was launched from. Or, the last command the process ran (PowerShell).
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> cmdline``

Checks for console command history in physical memory. Can recover historical commands.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> cmdscan``

Extracts console buffers.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> consoles``

#### Network Information
The same as running netstat in CLI on your host. Cannot retrieve historical connections, unlike netscan.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> netstat``

Scans physical memory for both active and recently closed connections. Displays process ID for each process and IPs/Ports/Protocols it has been communicating to.
- ``vol.py -f “/path/to/file” ‑‑profile <profile> netscan``

#### Registry Information
Displays all programs configured to auto-run on startup. 
- ``vol.py -f memdump.raw --profile=<profile> printkey -K "Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run"``